Cosmos Spark connector: Ingestion scenario best practices (#26160)
Azure/azure-sdk-for-java: sdk/cosmos/azure-cosmos-spark_3-1_2-12/docs/scenarios/Ingestion.md

# Ingesting data into Azure Cosmos DB via the Spark Connector for Spark 3.*

## Introduction

> The `cosmos.oltp` data source can be used to write a data frame into Cosmos DB. By default the ingestion will happen using bulk mode and parameters like the `micro batch size` are automatically modified behind the scenes depending on the rate of throttled requests and transient errors like request timeouts. The `cosmos.oltp` data source will attempt to saturate the available throughput. So, a certain amount of 429 (Throttled requests) are expected and are actually a good sign, because it means, the available throughput is really  saturated. If it is not desired to saturate the entire available throughput, client-side throughput control can be enabled - which means the ingestion will only attempt to saturate the throughput budget provided via throughput control.

Author: > Do we have any relevant links for Bulk mode in Java?

No - we don't have any guidance/samples or a blog post for Java SDK yet as far as I can tell. I have linked your blog posts for now - they explain the concepts very well - we need to "translate" them for the Java SDK and the changed API there. We can change the Spark text to refer to the Java link once that is ready.

> The `cosmos.oltp` data source can be used to write a data frame into Cosmos DB. By default the ingestion will happen using bulk mode and parameters like the `micro batch size` are automatically modified behind the scenes depending on the rate of throttled requests and transient errors like request timeouts. The `cosmos.oltp` data source will attempt to saturate the available throughput. So, a certain amount of 429 (Throttled requests) are expected and are actually a good sign, because it means, the available throughput is really  saturated. If it is not desired to saturate the entire available throughput, client-side throughput control can be enabled - which means the ingestion will only attempt to saturate the throughput budget provided via throughput control.

Author: > Link "throughput control" to the section in the article for it ideally.

Done

> The `cosmos.oltp` data source can be used to write a data frame into Cosmos DB. By default the ingestion will happen using bulk mode and parameters like the `micro batch size` are automatically modified behind the scenes depending on the rate of throttled requests and transient errors like request timeouts. The `cosmos.oltp` data source will attempt to saturate the available throughput. So, a certain amount of 429 (Throttled requests) are expected and are actually a good sign, because it means, the available throughput is really  saturated. If it is not desired to saturate the entire available throughput, client-side throughput control can be enabled - which means the ingestion will only attempt to saturate the throughput budget provided via throughput control.

Author: Leaving this comment open to make it easier for other reviewers to follow the discussion around the "bulk mode" introduction for Java SDK above.

### How bulk ingestion works

> In Spark the data frame containing the input data will usually be partitioned. For each partition of the input data Spark will create a Spark task, which will process this partition (a slice of the input data) independently of other Spark tasks.

Author: Done

![Spark partitioning overview](./media/Spark_partitioning.png)

The `cosmos.oltp` data source will create one singleton `CosmosAsyncClient` per Executor/Driver-node - so, this client instance will be shared across multiple Spark tasks being executed concurrently on a single Executor node. But it will create one `BulkWriter` for each Spark task/partition - this `BulkWriter` will only be responsible for ingesting the data of a single Spark partition.

> Each `BulkWriter` will buffer data in-memory for each physical partition in Cosmos DB and "flush" it by sending a single request ingesting multiple documents. The buffers are flushed when certain thresholds are met. Thresholds resulting in "flushing" documents for a physical partition into the Cosmos DB backend are based on the currently determined micro batch size, the total payload size for all buffered documents and an interval, measuring how long the documents buffered have not been persisted yet. This "flush interval" makes sure that even on partitions with just a few documents, the documents get persisted after a couple of seconds at least.

Reviewer: Is it after a couple of seconds or up to 1 second?

Author: Left this intentionally vague because I don't want changes to the flush interval (not exposed in config - so implementation detail) to become breaking changes. The implementation currently uses 1 second as a flush interval up to the point where the Flux with the incoming data signals that there is no more data - then we switch to 100ms. Both might need to be changed - and if necessary we might even need to expose them in config. For Spark it is perfectly fine - but for customers using the Java SDK directly there could be widely different use cases where latency might be critical.

Author: Leaving open only to make it easier for reviewers to see the discussion.

> The benefit of this model where each `BulkWriter` can write data across all Cosmos partitions independently is, that it maintains the isolation of Spark tasks and partitions, plays well with built-in Spark retry policies and its scalability behaviour. The drawback is that when ingesting a large data volume into a target Cosmos DB container with many physical partitions (significantly above 100 physical partitions or 5 TB of data), there is a relatively large client-side compute overhead, because each Spark Task will create its own `BulkWriter` which will have to buffer data for hundreds of partitions. So, when for example using a Spark Cluster with Executor nodes with 16 or 32 cores - there will be 16 (or 32) `BulkWriter` instances all buffering data (and processing it in separate reactor pipelines) for several hundred partitions. In this use case it can be beneficial to repartition the input data first - to avoid that each Spark partition contains data for all Cosmos partitions (see the `Optimization recommendations when migrating  into large containers (>> 100 physical partitions or >> 5 TB of data)` section below)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The benefit of this model where each `BulkWriter` can write data across all Cosmos partitions independently is that it maintains the isolation of Spark tasks and partitions, and plays well with built-in Spark retry policies and its scalability behaviour. On the other hand, the drawback is that when ingesting a large data volume into a target Cosmos DB container with many physical partitions (significantly above 100 physical partitions or 5 TB of data), there is a relatively large client-side compute overhead, because each Spark Task will create its own `BulkWriter` which will have to buffer data for hundreds of partitions. As an example, when using a Spark Cluster with Executor nodes with 16 or 32 cores - there will be 16 (or 32) `BulkWriter` instances all buffering data (and processing it in separate reactor pipelines) for several hundred partitions. In this use case it can be beneficial to repartition the input data first - to avoid that each Spark partition contains data for all Cosmos partitions (see the [Optimization recommendations when migrating  into large containers (>> 100 physical partitions or >> 5 TB of data)](#optimization-recommendations-when-migrating-into-large-containers--100-physical-partitions-or--5-tb-of-data) section below)
```

Author: Done

### Throughput control

> The client-throughput control capability in the `cosmos.oltp` data source allows you to limit the "RU budget" that can be used for a certain Spark job - the enforcement of the "RU budget" will happen client-side - so it is a best effort enforcement and no hard guarantee - but usually you will see that the average RU consumption follows the configured restrictions very well (plus/minus a few single digit percent). The client-side through put control happens across all Spark executors and the driver - so, it is a global throughput enforcement. To be able to coordinate the "RU budget" each executor can consume, a dedicated Cosmos DB container is used, to store the meta-data and balance the load and RU-usage between executors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The client-throughput control capability in the `cosmos.oltp` data source allows you to limit the "RU budget" that can be used for a certain Spark job from the client-side, it is a best effort enforcement and no hard guarantee - usually you will see that the average RU consumption follows the configured restrictions very well (plus/minus a few single digit percent). The client-side throughput control happens across all Spark executors and the driver - so, it is a global throughput enforcement. To be able to coordinate the "RU budget" each executor can consume, a dedicated Cosmos DB container is used, to store the meta-data and balance the load and RU-usage between executors.
```

Author: Done

### Retry policies and data validation
All transient errors (Throttled requests, network timeouts, any recoverable service errors etc.) are retried automatically by the `cosmos.oltp` data source. Any non-transient errors - for example "400-Bad request" when the value of the "id" column is invalid - which would not be recoverable by retries, will result in the Spark job failing. When your container has a "unique key constraint policy" any 409 "Conflict" (indicating violation of unique key constraint) handling will depend on the `spark.cosmos.write.strategy`.
- For `ItemOverwrite` a 409 - Conflict due to unique key violation will result in an error - and the Spark hob will fail.
- For `ItemAppend` like conflicts on pk+id any unique key policy constraint violation will be ignored.

## Preparation
Below are a couple of tips/best-practices that can help you to prepare for a data migration into a Cosmos DB container.

### Choosing a good partition key

> To be able to fully saturate the provisioned throughput of a container, it is important to choose a partition key that ensures the ingested data is spread over all physical partitions. A really bad choice for example would be a date/time based partition key. Imagine a daily batch job ingests telemetry events and a partition key of the form YYYYMMDD is used. In this case all documents being ingested daily would target a single logical partition. So independent of the total provisioned throughput at most 10,000 RU (current maximum throughput per physical/logical partition) could be used for the ingestion job. You can find some more info abut [partitioning in Cosmos DB](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cosmos-db/partitioning-overview) and (how to choose a good partition key)[https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cosmos-db/partitioning-overview#choose-partitionkey] in the documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To be able to fully saturate the provisioned throughput of a container, it is important to choose a partition key that ensures the ingested data is spread over all physical partitions. A really bad choice for example would be a date/time based partition key. Imagine a daily batch job ingests telemetry events and a partition key of the form YYYYMMDD is used. In this case all documents being ingested daily would target a single logical partition. So independent of the total provisioned throughput at most 10,000 RU (current maximum throughput per physical/logical partition) could be used for the ingestion job. You can find some more info abut [partitioning in Cosmos DB](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/cosmos-db/partitioning-overview) and (how to choose a good partition key)[https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/cosmos-db/partitioning-overview#choose-partitionkey] in the documentation.
```

Author: Done

### Indexing policy

> The RU-charge when inserting or updating a document in Cosmos DB depends on the size of the document as well as the number of "tokens" that need to be indexed. A little simplified you can think of the number of tokens as the number of json properties that need to be indexed. So, to optimize throughput for the ingestion it would be beneficial to use a scoped indexing policy (not the default policy of indexing all properties, but only the properties that really need to be indexed). The two documents below contain more information about how to choose the right indexing policy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The RU-charge when inserting or updating a document in Cosmos DB depends on the size of the document as well as the number of "tokens" that need to be indexed. You can think of the number of tokens as the number of json properties that need to be indexed. So, to optimize throughput for the ingestion it would be beneficial to use a scoped indexing policy (not the default policy of indexing all properties, but only the properties that really need to be indexed). The two documents below contain more information about how to choose the right indexing policy.
```

Author: Done

> - [Indexing policies in Azure Cosmos DB](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cosmos-db/index-policy)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Indexing policies in Azure Cosmos DB](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/cosmos-db/index-policy)
```

Author: Done

> - [Indexing in Azure Cosmos DB - Overview](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cosmos-db/index-overview)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Indexing in Azure Cosmos DB - Overview](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/cosmos-db/index-overview)
```

Author: Done

### Throughput control

> The client-throughput control capability in the `cosmos.oltp` data source allows you to limit the "RU budget" that can be used for a certain Spark job from the client-side, it is a best effort enforcement and no hard guarantee - usually you will see that the average RU consumption follows the configured restrictions very well (plus/minus a few single digit percent). The client-side throughput control happens across all Spark executors and the driver - so, it is a global throughput enforcement. To be able to coordinate the "RU budget" each executor can consume, a dedicated Cosmos DB container is used, to store the meta-data and balance the load and RU-usage between executors.

Reviewer 2: do we need to also emphasis that this dedicated CosmosDB container needs to be created before the ingestion happened?

Author: Added some notes around this
